## Table of Content

- [How to connect Remix to Seed Emulator](#emulator)

--------------------
<a name="emulator"></a>
# How to connect Remix to Seed Emulator

## A.1 Background

Remix is an online IDE used to write, deploy, and interact with smart contracts.
One feature of Remix we want to make use of is connecting to a Web3 provider.
Our emulator is a Web3 provider and we will be deploying our smart contracts from Remix to our private network.

## A.2 How it works

One of the nodes in our private network runs an HTTP server which accepts connections from Remix.

## A.3 Build dependencies

Generate the .bin file from the BOO-mini-internet example.

## A.4 Build and run network

Inside our example, run the component-blockchain.py then the blockchain.py file.
Go to the generated output folder and run dcbuild then dcup.

## A.5 Before connecting to Remix

Make sure the Ethereum-6 node is up and running as it is the one listening for connections.
We can verify that by looking at the logs generated by the dcup command.

## A.6 Remix sections

Remix has 5 main sections in its sidebar:
	- File explorer
	- Solidity compiler
	- Deploy and run transactions
	- Debugger
	- Plugin manager
We  are interested in the first 3 sections.
In the File explorer section, you can create your smart contracts inside the contracts folder.
In the Solidity compiler section, you can select the compiler version of your choice depending on the version you are using in your code.
In the Deploy and run transactions section, you can connect to the network of your choice, deploy smart contracts, and interact with them.

## A.7 Connect Remix to our network

This section covers how to use section 3 of Remix.
Navigate to the "Deploy and run transactions" section.
Find the "environment" dropdown.
Select "Web3 Provider", a popup will show up.
Click on OK to connect to the default url.
Changes in the "Accounts" list should take effect right away. 
